Hello friends
In this video we will discuss why the Greedy algorithms
may not always provide the optimal results
Let us understand this with the minimum coin exchange problem
let us assume we need to give coins for a
piece 40 and we have coins of rupees 25 20
10 and five
What will be the greedy solution for minimum number of
coins here It will start taking coins from the highest
value and 25 is lesser than 40
So it will take 1 25
rupees coin and increment
The coin count
The coin count becomes one
Now the balance amount will be 40 minus 25 which
is 15 and 25 is greater than 15
So we cannot take another ₹25 coin
So move to the next coin which is 20 here
20 is 	greater than 15
So we cannot include coin 20 in our solution
So move on to
The next coin which is 10 and 10 is lesser
than 15
So take 1 ₹10 coin and increment count the coin
count becomes two now
Now reduce 10 from the current balance
So the new balance will be 15 minus 10 which
is five
And since 10 is greater than five we cannot take
another ₹10 coin so move onto the next coin
which is five and our expected
Value is also five so take five and increment the
coin count
The coin count becomes three
Now we have found the solution which is 1 ₹25
coin and 1 ₹10 coin and one five rupee
coin
So the minimum number of coins needed to the amount
40 is three
But do you think this is the best solution for
this problem Absolutely not
Only 2 ₹20 coins are enough to satisfy the actual
value
So the minimum number of coins needed to the amount
40 is two which is 2 ₹20 coins
But the greedy approach solution is three coins
So from this problem we can understand that the greedy
algorithm cannot produce the overall optimal result
Always
So before applying the greedy algorithm we should analyse the
algorithm for all possible input cases
If it does not provide the correct result for any
particular case we should choose another approach to solve the
problem
So that's all for this video
And in the next video we will learn the implementation of minimum coin exchange problem.